# [28928](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/28928/): add coverage for bech32m in `wallet_keypool_topup`

## Concepts to Understand
A keypool is a set of pre-generated (private and public) keys that a wallet maintains for immediate generation of new addresses without the need to generate new keys on the spot for every new transaction or address request. This makes it easier to avoid address reuse (privacy enhancement). It's also more efficient to get a new address from the keypool, rather than having the wallet software need to run and generate a new address to receive a transaction.

The "top up" here refers to when the keypool is replenished after the number of unused keys falls below a certain threshold. This is done automatically in the wallet to ensure that there's always a ready supply of new addresses that can be used for transactions.

## PR Improvements
This PR enhances the functional test `wallet_keypool_topup` by:
- adding bech32m addresses (introduced as part of the Taproot upgrade) to the test. It makes sure to do this only if descriptor wallets are being used. 
    ```bash
    output_types = ["legacy", "p2sh-segwit", "bech32"]
    if self.options.descriptors:
        output_types.append("bech32m")
    ```

- ~~using multiple wallets on one node instead of multiple nodes. This simplifies the test setup quite a bit and still keeps the main functionality of testing keypool restoration. I'll check to see how much time is saved with this change.~~ Turns out this was an incorrect implementation of the test.


## Brief Code Walkthrough

For each address type, the test creates a new wallet, then generates 90 addresses to simulate usage of the initial keypool, and then an additional 20 addresses to trigger the wallet to extend the keypool.
```bash
for _ in range(90):
    addr_oldpool = wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type)
for _ in range(20):
    addr_extpool = wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type)
```

_This part of the test is corrected below._ The test sends funds to addresses from the initial and extended keypools, then mines a block to confirm these transactions.
```bash
default_wallet.send(outputs=[{addr_oldpool:10}, {addr_extpool:5}])
self.generate(node, 1)
```

_This part of the test is corrected below._ The wallet is unloaded and reloaded to simulate restoring from disk and checks that the balance is correct (15 BTC from the two transactions sent earlier).
```bash
node.unloadwallet(wallet_name)
node.loadwallet(wallet_name)

assert_equal(wallet.getbalance(), 15)
assert_equal(wallet.listtransactions()[0]['category'], "receive")
```

The test checks, for each type, that the derivation path of the next address generated matches expectations, indicating that the wallet has correctly marked all used keys up to the highest key used.
```bash
if output_type == 'legacy':
    assert_equal(wallet.getaddressinfo(wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type))['hdkeypath'], "m/44h/1h/0h/0/110")
elif output_type == 'p2sh-segwit':
    assert_equal(wallet.getaddressinfo(wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type))['hdkeypath'], "m/49h/1h/0h/0/110")
elif output_type == 'bech32':
    assert_equal(wallet.getaddressinfo(wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type))['hdkeypath'], "m/84h/1h/0h/0/110")
elif output_type == 'bech32m':
    assert_equal(wallet.getaddressinfo(wallet.getnewaddress(address_type=output_type))['hdkeypath'], "m/86h/1h/0h/0/110")
```

## Correction on Multiple Nodes
Comments from achow101 corrected the change from multiple nodes to multiple wallets on one node. 

To clarify the purpose of the test:
- When a wallet sees a transaction to an address in its keypool, it recognizes this and removes that address and all previous ones from the pool because they're now considered used.
- After recognizing used addresses, the wallet automatically generates new ones to top up the keypool.
- If there are transactions involving addresses beyond the initial keypool range, the wallet can detect these after the first top up and trigger another top up to handle those addresses as well.

So loading and unloading the wallet, as shown above, doesn't simulate the more realistic scenario of a wallet discovering transactions to its addresses while it's not actively being used or after being restored from a backup. The keypool is supposed to be dynamically managed as transactions occur over time (different blocks), which is not tested by only reloading a wallet.

A node with multiple wallets using `send`to itself, as shown above, doesn't accurately simulate receiving transactions from another node. Transactions can occur while a node's wallet is offline, so it's important to test that upon coming back online or being restored from a backup the wallet will correctly update its keypool. Also, using `send` could result in transactions being processed in an unexpected order because transactions in the same block can be re-ordered. The original test (pre bech32m), with transactions in separate blocks, ensures that the first address for the keypool top up will be handled before the second top up address.

Basically, the added complexity of multiple nodes is necessary for the test to be useful.

## Corrected Test Walkthrough
Funds are sent to both an address from the initial keypool and an address from the extended keypool. The test mines a block in between the two transactions to make sure that the order of addresses is correct.
```bash
self.nodes[0].sendtoaddress(addr_oldpool, 10)
self.generate(self.nodes[0], 1)
self.nodes[0].sendtoaddress(addr_extpool, 5)
self.generate(self.nodes[0], 1)
```
The test simulates wallet restoration by stopping the node, restoring the wallet from the backup, and then restarting the node. This verifies that the wallet recognizes transactions to addresses in the keypool after a restore.
```bash
self.stop_node(idx)
shutil.copyfile(wallet_backup_path, wallet_path)
self.start_node(idx, self.extra_args[idx])
self.connect_nodes(0, idx)
```